Development Process
===================

Repository Management
---------------------

Praefectus is being developed in accordance to the tailored [GitHub
Flow][github-flow] process.

For small bug fixes and features, it means creating a GitHub pull request that
will get merged into the main branch. The only difference with the GitHub flow
proposed in the documentation is that the maintainers will do their best to
perform, in that order:

1. Fast-forward pull request merge, if possible
2. Rebase, if not very hard
3. Proper merge with creating a merge commit otherwise

This helps to keep the repository history clean without creating any unnecessary
complications.

When encountering a bug or a feature absence, try the following, in that order:

1. For really simple fixes, you may just go ahead and create a pull request
   without any additional bureaucracy required
2. For moderate problems and small absent features, always remember to create an
   issue first: it will allow you to discuss details of the bug/feature with
   other project users and maintainers before writing a patch
3. For huge, fundamental features create an RFC (see the next section of this
   document)

Request For Comments
--------------------

In Praefectus, we aim to manage the project tasks efficiently and carefully,
which means that:

- every feature status should be clear (either it is planned, is it in
  discussion, or is it implemented)
- every big and/or important feature should be documented
- every big feature deserves to be discussed by maintainers and other interested
  persons before being included into the project

We aren't looking for creating too much fuss for small features and bug fixes,
but we believe that right amount of documentation will well serve the users and
the project contributors.

So, for big features (deciding whether the feature is big enough is up to the
project maintainers), the following process should be followed most of the time:

1. First of all, create an issue with clean description of motivation for the
   feature, some usage examples, implementation proposal etc. The issue then
   gets discussed by interested persons and may be refined in process of
   discussion.

   These issues receive a label `kind:rfc`.
2. If the feature gets approved by the project maintainers, then the RFC
   (request for comments) should be written. RFC is a more formal document that
   specified how feature works from the user side and may give some important
   implementation details.
3. RFC goes through maintainer approval process, and then gets merged into the
   project repository under the `docs/rfcs` directory.

   Such features are still considered a subject to change (although the changes
   should usually be smaller on this stage), but they are officially approved
   for inclusion into Praefectus and should be eventually implemented.
4. After the feature is implemented, the documentation should be moved from the
   `rfcs` directory directly to the `docs`, and become a part of the general
   project documentation.

This doesn't mean that the features cannot receive comments at any point of the
application development: they are still subject to change after RFC approval and
even after implementation merge into the master branch. But, yet, there's an
expected pattern of feature life cycle that should allow to work on new features
in the most efficient manner.

If you're a project contributor and not sure if a feature you propose deserves
and RFC or not, then don't hesitate to contact any of the project maintainers:
they'll help you to decide and will guide you through the process.

[github-flow]: https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/
