Configuration
=============

Praefectus is configured via a configuration file, which is named
`praefectus.json` by default. See the [command line interface
RFC][docs.rfcs.command-line-interface] for details on changing the configuration
file location.

Logging Configuration
---------------------

Praefectus uses the [Serilog][serilog] logging library. It may be configured via
the corresponding `Serilog` section of the configuration file. See [the Serilog
documentation][serilog-settings-configuration] for details, and a configuration
example below.

```json
{
  "Serilog": {
    "Using":  ["Serilog.Sinks.Console"],
    "MinimumLevel": "Debug",
    "WriteTo": [
      { "Name": "Console" },
      { "Name": "File", "Args": { "path": "%TEMP%\\praefectus\\praefectus.log" } }
    ]
  }
}
```

Praefectus has `Serilog.Sinks.Console` and `Serilog.Sinks.File` packages
installed and ready to be used in the logging configuration.

Application Configuration
-------------------------

Praefectus also has a few settings of its own. Find the example and the setting
list below:

```json
{
  "DatabaseLocation": "C:\\Temp\\Database.json"
}
```

- `DatabaseLocation`: a path to the database location on disk. Praefectus
  database is currently stored in JSON format, but this is a subject to change;
  see [the corresponding RFC][issue-09] for details. By default, the database is
  stored in the `praefectus.data.json` file in the current directory.

Default Configuration File
--------------------------

Default configuration file for Praefectus configures the logs to be written to
the console, no other settings are introduced.

[docs.rfcs.command-line-interface]: rfcs/command-line-interface.md
[issue-09]: https://github.com/ForNeVeR/praefectus/issues/9
[serilog]: https://serilog.net/
[serilog-settings-configuration]: https://github.com/serilog/serilog-settings-configuration
